#summary List of contributors and funding sources.

<wiki:toc/>

= Contributors =
 * Clive Temperton is the author of the CFFT99 Fortran routine (1980).
 * Matteo Frigo and Steven G. Johnson (fftw@fftw.org) are the authors of the `FFTW3` package, to which `ADDA` is linked.
 * Makoto Matsumoto and Takuji Nishimura are the authors of the Mersenne twister random number generator.
 * Michel D. Grimminck implemented the first versions of FFT part of `ADDA` ([http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/fft.c fft.c]), matrix–vector product ([http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/matvec.c matvec.c]), and most of the non-standard beam types ([http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/GenerateB.c GenerateB.c]). He also contributed to the particle generation routines ([http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/make_particle.c make_particle.c]).
 * Martin Frijlink implemented the first versions of the MPI part of `ADDA` ([http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/comm.c comm.c]), 2D Romberg integration ([http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/Romberg.c Romberg.c]), and calculation of the radiation force and scattering quantities obtained by integration ([http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/crosssec.c crosssec.c]).
 * Konstantin A. Semyanov added several new shapes to the older version of particle generation routine ([http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/make_particle.c make_particle.c]).
 * Daniel Hahn and Richard Joseph implemented `egg` and `capsule` shapes.
 * Konstantin Gilev provided the basis of the code for the shape `axisymmetric`.
 * Patrick C. Chaumet and Adel Rahmani contributed Fortran routines to integrate Green’s tensor.
 * Jin You Lu provided the basis of the code for the shapes `bicoated` and `bisphere`.
 * Alexander Moskalensky provided the basis of the code for the shape `biellipsoid`.
 * Sergei Lebedev implemented shape `plate`.
 * Roman Schuh and Thomas Wriedt contributed "Point in Polyhedron" tool ([http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/misc/pip misc/pip]), using the code by John Burkardt.
 * Josef Gasteiger contributed tool chain to work with Hyperfun models ([http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/misc/hyperfun misc/hyperfun]).
 * Code for iterative solver `bcgs2` is based on [http://www.math.uu.nl/people/vorst/zbcg2.f90 zbcg2.f90] by M.A. Botchev and D.R. Fokkema.
 * Neoklis Kyriazis is the author of NEC2C, from which Sommerfeld integration routines are used.
 * Stefania D'Agostino contributed the first version of the code to calculate dipole decay-rate enhancement.

The above list doesn't include [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/people/list current contributors].

= We also thank =

 * Bruce T. Draine and Piotr J. Flatau for creating and developing the first publicly available DDA code [http://www.astro.princeton.edu/~draine/DDSCAT.html DDSCAT]. They maintain a high standard, which we try to match, both for highly productive convenient code and clear detailed manual. Parts of the [http://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0409262 user guide for DDSCAT 6.1] were used when writing the [http://a-dda.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/doc/manual.pdf manual] for `ADDA`.
 * Alexander N. Shvalov for information on [http://mingw.org/ MinGW] and encouraging the authors to produce executables for Windows.
 * Michiel Min for fruitful discussions about the `-anisotr` option and his motivation to implement the FCD formulation.
 * R. Scott Brock for ideas to greatly accelerate computation of the scattered field.
 * All `ADDA` users who provided bug reports and suggestions, especially Antti Penttila and Vitezslav Karasek.

= Funding sources =

 * The University of Amsterdam (The Netherlands)
 * The Dutch Science Foundation NWO (The Netherlands)
 * The Department of Defense (USA) 
 * The NATO Science for Peace program (project 977976, 2002-2006)
 * European Research Council (ERC) Starting Grant FP7 Project DEDOM (grant 207441, 2008-2013).
 * Program of the Russian Government "Research and educational personnel of innovative Russia" - contract P2497 (2009-2011) and grant 8752 (2012-2013). 