#summary How to add code for a new predefined shape.

This page describes how to add new shape, defined by a relatively small number of parameters. These shapes provide a high-level description, which is automatically discretized by *ADDA* into a set of dipoles (voxels). If you just want *ADDA* to read voxel structure from file, please consider [AddingShapeFileFormat adding support for new format of shape file] instead.

All places in the code, where something should be added, are commented. These comments start with "`TO ADD NEW SHAPE`" and contain detailed description; the text below is less detailed. Added code should be analogous to shapes already present. The procedure is the following:
 * Add new shape descriptor in the file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/const.h const.h]. Starting descriptor name with `SH_` is recommended, as well as adding a descriptive comment.
 * Add information about the new shape in the file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/param.c param.c]. It should be a new row in the constant array `shape_opt`. This line should contain: the shape name (it will be used in a command line), usage string (the description of possible input parameters), help string (it will be shown when `-h` option is used), possible number of parameters (real values), shape descriptor. If this shape can accept variable number of parameters use `UNDEF` instead of a number and then check the number of parameters explicitly in function `PARSE_FUNC(shape)` (below in the same file). If shape accepts a single parameter with a file name, use `FNAME_ARG` instead.
 * Add initialization of the new shape in `else if` sequence in function `InitShape` in file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/make_particle.c make_particle.c] (in alphabetical order). This initialization should save all parameters from the array `sh_pars` to local variables, which should be defined in the beginning of the file (the place for that is shown by a comment). Then test all input parameters for consistency (for that you are encouraged to use functions from [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/param.h param.h] since they would automatically produce informative output in case of error). If the shape breaks any symmetry, corresponding variables should be set to `false`. Currently only two symmetries are relevant, however it is recommended to consider all of them (see the comments in the code) for future compatibility. Then initialize the following variables: 
   * `sh_form_str` – descriptive string that would be shown in the `log`;
   * either `yx_ratio` (_D,,y,,_/_D,,x,,_) or `n_boxY` (_n,,y,,_);
   * either `zx_ratio` (_D,,z,,_/_D,,x,,_) or `n_boxZ` (_n,,z,,_);
   * `Nmat_need` – number of different domains in this shape;
   * `volume_ratio` – ratio of particle volume (in units of dipoles) to _n,,x,,_^3^, it is used for dpl correction;
   * `n_boxX` - grid size for the particle, defined by shape (only when relevant);
   * `n_sizeX` – absolute size of the particle, defined by shape (only when relevant);
   * all other auxiliary variables that are used in shape generation (below). 
 If you do not initialize `yx_ratio` and/or `zx_ratio` set it explicitly to `UNDEF`. If you need temporary local variables (which are used only in this part of the code), either use `tmp1` – `tmp3` or define your own (with more informative names) in the beginning of `InitShape` function. 
 * Add definition of the new shape in `else if` sequence in function `MakeParticle` in file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/make_particle.c make_particle.c] (in alphabetical order). This definition should set the variable `mat` – index of domain – for each point, specified by (`xr`,`yr`,`zr`) – coordinates divided by _D,,x,,_. Do not set `mat` for void dipoles. If you need temporary local variables (which are used only in this part of the code), either use `tmp1` – `tmp3` or define your own (with more informative names) in the beginning of `MakeParticle` function.

Please refer to section _Defining a Scatterer_ of the [http://a-dda.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/doc/manual.pdf manual] for description of the above-mentioned variables and for general overview of how the particle shape is treated inside *ADDA*.

If you add a new predefined shape to *ADDA* according to the described procedure, please consider [InstructionCommitters contributing your code] to be incorporated in future releases.