#summary How to add code for a new predefined beam type.

All places in the code, where something should be added, are commented. These comments start with "`TO ADD NEW BEAM`" and contain detailed description; the text below is less detailed. Added code should be analogous to beam types already present. The procedure is the following:
 * Add new beam descriptor in the file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/const.h const.h]. Starting descriptor name with `B_` is recommended, as well as adding a descriptive comment.
 * Add information about the new beam type in the file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/param.c param.c]. It should be a new row in the constant array `beam_opt`. This line should contain: the beam name (it will be used in a command line), usage string (the description of possible input parameters), help string (it will be shown when `-h` option is used), possible number of parameters (real values), beam descriptor. If this beam type can accept variable number of parameters use `UNDEF` instead of a number and then check the number of parameters explicitly in function `PARSE_FUNC(beam)` (below in the same file). If beam type accepts a single parameter with a file name, use `FNAME_ARG` instead.
 * Add initialization of the new beam type in the end of `else if` sequence in the function `InitBeam` in the file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/GenerateB.c GenerateB.c]. This initialization should save all parameters from the array beam_pars to local variables, which should be defined in the beginning of the file (the place for that is shown by a comment). Then test all input parameters for consistency (for that you are encouraged to use functions from [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/param.h param.h] since they would automatically produce informative output in case of error). If the shape breaks any symmetry, corresponding variables should be set to `false`. Currently only two symmetries are relevant, however it is recommended to consider all of them (see the comments in the code) for future compatibility. Then initialize the following variables: 1) `beam_descr` – descriptive string that would be shown in the `log`; 2) `beam_asym` – whether beam center does not coincide with the reference frame origin. If it is set to true, then set also `beam_center_0` – 3D radius-vector of beam center in the laboratory reference frame; 3) all other auxiliary variables that are used in beam generation (below). If you need temporary local variables (which are used only in this part of the code) define them in the beginning of `InitBeam` function.
 * Add definition of the new beam type in the end of `else if` sequence in the function `GenerateB` in the file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/GenerateB.c GenerateB.c]. This definition should set complex vector `b`, describing the incident field in the particle reference frame. It is set inside the cycle for each dipole of the particle and is calculated using 1) `DipoleCoord` – array of dipole coordinates; 2) `prop` – propagation direction of the incident field; 3) `ex` – direction of incident polarization; 4) `ey` – complementary unity vector of polarization (orthogonal to both `prop` and `ex`); 5) `beam_center` – beam center in the particle reference frame (automatically calculated from `beam_center_0` defined in `InitBeam`). If you need temporary local variables (which are used only in this part of the code), either use `t1` – `t8` or define your own (with more informative names) in the beginning of `GenerateB` function.
 * Take a look at function `ExtCross` in file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/crosssec.c crosssec.c]. Used formulae for non-plane beams assume that the amplitude of the beam is unity at the focal point. So either make sure that the new beam type satisfies this condition or add other formulae to this function.

Please refer to section _Incident Beam_ of the [http://a-dda.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/doc/manual.pdf manual] for description of the above-mentioned variables and for general overview of how the incident beam is treated inside `ADDA`.

If you add a new predefined beam type to `ADDA` according to the described procedure, please consider [InstructionCommitters contributing your code] to be incorporated in future releases.