#summary How to add code for a new reflection formulation.

Here "reflection" denotes the part of the total Green's tensor for two interacting dipoles, which comes from the surface. All places in the code, where something should be added, are commented. These comments start with "`TO ADD NEW REFLECTION FORMULATION`" and contain detailed description; the text below is less detailed. Added code should be analogous to reflection formulations already present. The procedure is the following:
 * Add new reflection term descriptor in the file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/const.h const.h]. Starting descriptor name with `GR_` is recommended, as well as adding a descriptive comment.
 * Add information about the new reflection formulation in the file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/param.c param.c].
   * Modify string constants after `PAR(int_surf)` in the constant array `options`: add new argument to list `{...}` and its description to the next string.
   * Add one line to the else-if sequence in the function `PARSE_FUNC(int_surf)`. If new formulation allows sub-arguments, process them here.
   * Take a look at the logic for interrelation between reflection formulations and perfectly conducting surface in function `VariablesInterconnect` and revise it, if needed.
   * Add a case to the relevant switch in the function `PrintInfo`.
 * Main part of the code should be added to [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/interaction.c interaction.c].
   * Add functions that actually perform the calculation of the reflection term, according to the new formulae. At the end you need to have two functions according to the declarations `ReflTerm_int` and `ReflTerm_real` in `interaction.h`. There are two ways to proceed:
     * either (_recommended_) create one main function with the following declaration
{{{
static inline void ReflTerm_<name>(double qvec[static 3],doublecomplex result[static 6],const bool unitsGrid)
}}}
     which works for real input vector and accepts additional bool argument, specifying the units. After the function definition you specify `WRAPPERS_REFL(InterTerm_<name>)`, which automatically produces wrappers compatible with declarations in `interaction.h`.
     * or create two separate functions named `ReflTerm_<name>_int` and `ReflTerm_<name>_real`. If the new formulation does not support arbitrary real input vector (e.g. it is based on tables), then use `NO_REAL_WRAPPER(ReflTerm_<name>)` instead of the real-input declaration.
   * Update assignment of function pointers in function `InitInteraction`. If new formulation requires initialization, add it here as well, preferably by a separate function. Also test for possible incompatibilities with other `ADDA` parameters, if any, and add an exception.
   * If you allocate any memory (for tables, etc.), free it in function `FreeInteraction`.

Please refer to section _Interaction Term_ of the [http://a-dda.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/doc/manual.pdf manual] for general overview and precise definition of the reflection term inside `ADDA`.

If you add a new refletion formulation to `ADDA` according to the described procedure, please consider [InstructionCommitters contributing your code] to be incorporated in future releases.