All places in the code, where something should be added, are commented. These comments start with "`TO ADD POLARIZABILITY FORMULATION`" and contain detailed description; the text below is less detailed. Added code should be analogous to polarizability formulations already present. The procedure is the following:
 * Add new polarizability descriptor in the file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/const.h const.h]. Starting descriptor name with `POL_` is recommended, as well as adding a descriptive comment.
 * Add information about the new interaction formulation in the file [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/param.c param.c].
   * Modify string constants after `PAR(pol)` in the constant array `options`: add new argument to list `{...}` and its description to the next string.
   * Add one line to the else-if sequence in the function `PARSE_FUNC(pol)`. If new formulation allows sub-arguments, process them here.
   * If the new polarizability formulation is incompatible with anisotropic material, add an exception in function `VariablesInterconnect`.
   * Add a case to the relevant switch in the function `PrintInfo`.
 * Main part of the code should be added to [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/browse/trunk/src/calculator.c calculator.c].
   * The main logic should be placed in function `CoupleConstant`. The corresponding case should either be added to `asym` list (then three components of polarizability are calculated from one refractive index) or to another one, then a scalar function is used.     
   * If new formulation depends on the incident polarization (unlikely) update the test in function `calculate_one_orientation`.

Please refer to section _Polarizability prescription_ of the [http://a-dda.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/doc/manual.pdf manual] for general overview and precise definition of the dipole polarizability inside `ADDA`.

If you add a new polarizability formulation to `ADDA` according to the described procedure, please consider [InstructionCommitters contributing your code] to be incorporated in future releases.