#summary A quick guide to getting started with ADDA
#labels Featured

If you are not sure, what is `ADDA` and whether it suits your needs, look first at its [Features]. If your are still unsure and have questions like "Can I use `ADDA` to ...?", look at the [FAQ Frequently asked questions]. 

When you decide to give `ADDA` a try, obtain one of the [PackageDescription packages]. You may either get the source code and [CompilingADDA compile] it yourself or get compiled executables for your platform (if available). All packages are available from [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/downloads/list Downloads], the source code can also be obtained directly from the [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/source/checkout repository].

After that you may immediately proceed to the hands-on [Tutorial] and make a few quick simulations. If you prefer a more thorough approach, please take a look at the [http://a-dda.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/doc/manual.pdf manual], which covers all aspects of performing light scattering simulations with `ADDA`.

If you need any help with `ADDA` or have a question, not included in the [FAQ], please [mailto:adda-discuss@googlegroups.com write] to the [http://groups.google.com/group/adda-discuss discussion group]. Moreover, you are encouraged to use [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/issues/list issue tracker] both to report bugs and to propose new features, improvements, etc. You can also star existing issues to influence their priorities (Google account is required for the latter).

The side bar to the left lists all available wiki pages. In addition to those mentioned above, there are [ReleaseNotes release notes], [ComparisonOtherCodes comparison with other codes], [LargestSimulations collection of largest simulations], [Links useful links], [Acknowledgements acknowledgements], and [EarlyHistory early history of ADDA]. There are also [InstructionCommitters detailed instructions], how to add new code to `ADDA` to enhance its functionality for your particular needs. We also maintain a [Publications list of papers that use ADDA] and a comprehensive [References list of references, relevant to different parts of ADDA].

`ADDA` is an open-source project which development relies on the community around it. There are many ways to help:
 * Using `ADDA` and advocating its use through publications and conference presentations.
 * Active participation in the [http://groups.google.com/group/adda-discuss discussion group], in particular, sharing your experience with other users.
 * Commenting and improving [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/w/list wiki pages] and other documentation.
 * Locating bugs and proposing new features for `ADDA`, using the [http://code.google.com/p/a-dda/issues/list issue tracker].
 * [InstructionCommitters Contributing] and improving the source code.