#summary A schematic overview of FFTW 3 installation.

<wiki:toc/>

The following guidelines are bases on `FFTW` version 3.2.2.

=Unix=

The installation of [http://www.fftw.org FFTW 3] on any Unix system is straightforward and therefore is _highly recommended_, since it greatly improves the performance of `ADDA`. The easiest is to [http://www.fftw.org/fftw3_doc/Installation-on-Unix.html install FFTW 3 for the entire system], using `root` account. Moreover, it is available as a standard package in many Unix/Linux distributions (be sure to also install development package, which includes headers).

If `root` is unavailable, FFTW can also be installed under any user account as follows:
 * Download the [http://www.fftw.org/download.html latest version of FFTW 3] 
 * Unpack it, cd into its directory, and type
{{{
./configure --prefix=$HOME [--enable-sse2]
}}}
 where `'--enable'` option allows effective use of modern processors. You may also look through the [http://www.fftw.org/fftw3_doc/Installation-on-Unix.html whole list of configuration options]. Then type
{{{
make
make install
}}}
 * Modify the initialization of internal variables `FFTW3_INC_PATH` and `FFTW3_LIB_PATH` in the `Makefile`, as described in [CompilingADDA].

[http://www.fftw.org/fftw3_doc/Installation-on-non_002dUnix-systems.html Installation of FFTW 3 on non-Unix systems] is slightly more complicated. 

=Windows=
If you just want to use [PackageDescription#Windows_executables ADDA executables for Windows], do not worry about `FFTW3` at all. An appropriate DLL is included in the corresponding package.

If you want to compile `ADDA` on Windows yourself, [http://www.fftw.org/install/windows.html install FFTW3 on Windows]. Although building `FFTW3` from source is possible, a recommended simpler way is the following:
 * Download a [http://www.fftw.org/install/windows.html precompiled package] (32 or 64-bit), containing DLLs and header files. It contains a lot of files, some of which are needed for compilation in, e.g., Microsoft Visual Studio. However, we discuss below compilation by GNU compilers using the [InstallingMinGW MinGW environment]. For that you need only `fftw3.h` and `libfftw3-3.dll`.
 * Create a copy of `libfftw3-3.dll` and rename it to `libfftw3.dll.a`. On Windows Vista and newer you may instead create a symbolic link (administrator privileges may be required for that)
{{{
mklink libfftw3.dll.a libfftw3-3.dll
}}}
 This is required because the `FFTW3` DLL package do not contain appropriate import-library file to use during linking. The DLL itself can be used for that, but it needs to be named a little bit differently to be automatically found by the linker.
 * Either 
   * modify the initialization of internal variables `FFTW3_INC_PATH` and `FFTW3_LIB_PATH` in the `Makefile` to point to the directory(ies) contating `fftw3.h` and `libfftw3.dll.a` respectively (see [CompilingADDA]).
   * or move these files to corresponding `include` and `lib` folders of the [InstallingMinGW#Advanced_options MinGW/MSYS environment].
 * To avoid need to move `libfftw3-3.dll` together with `ADDA` executables, either
   * add folder with `libfftw3-3.dll` to Windows environmental variable `PATH`
   * or move this file to a folder already included in `PATH`, e.g., `bin` subfolder of the [InstallingMinGW#Basic_installation MinGW installation directory]. If you used `mklink` option above, make sure that the link points to the final location of `libfftw3-3.dll`.