#summary List of journal papers that make use of ADDA

Below we list journal papers that use results of simulations using `ADDA`. Those (review) papers, which only mention `ADDA`, are not included. If you know a paper that should be included here please leave a comment below or contact [mailto:DaviddeKanterUvA@gmail.com David de Kanter]. Similar list of papers with full bibliographic data can be found in [http://www.zotero.org/myurkin/items/collectionKey/QF45ITEJ/order/date/sort/desc Zotero library].

<wiki:toc />

= 2014 (5) =
 # A. Wang, T.G. Dimiduk, J. Fung, S. Razavi, I. Kretzschmar, K. Chaudhary and V. N. Manoharan, "Using the discrete dipole approximation and holographic microscopy to measure rotational dynamics of non-spherical colloidal particles", [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2013.12.019 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 146, 499-509 (2014)].
 # H. Lindqvist, O. Jokinen, K. Kandler, D. Scheuvens, and T. Nousiainen, “Single scattering by realistic, inhomogeneous mineral dust particles with stereogrammetric shapes,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.5194/acp-14-143-2014 Atmos. Chem. Phys. 14, 143–157 (2014)].
 # E. Massa, T. Roschuk, S. A. Maier, and V. Giannini, “Discrete-dipole approximation on a rectangular cuboidal point lattice: considering dynamic depolarization,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/JOSAA.31.000135 J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 31, 135–140 (2014)].
 # J. Tyynelä, J. Leinonen, D. Moisseev, T. Nousiainen, and A. von Lerber, “Modeling radar backscattering from melting snowflakes using spheroids with nonuniform distribution of water,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2013.09.013 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 133, 504–519 (2014)].
 # C. M. Sorensen, E. Zubko, W. R. Heinson, and A. Chakrabarti, “Q-space analysis of scattering by small irregular particles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2013.07.020 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 133, 99–105 (2014)].

= 2013 (30) =
 # S. D’Agostino, F. Alpeggiani, and L. C. Andreani, “Strong coupling between a dipole emitter and localized plasmons: enhancement by sharp silver tips,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OE.21.027602 Opt. Express 21, 27602–27610 (2013)].
 # S. D’Agostino, F. Della Sala, and L. C. Andreani, “Radiative coupling of high-order plasmonic modes with far-field,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.photonics.2013.06.003 Photon. Nanostruct. Fundam. Applic. 11, 335–344 (2013)].
 # J. Zhang, Y. Feng, M. S. Moran, J. Q. Lu, L. V. Yang, Y. Sa, N. Zhang, L. Dong, and X.-H. Hu, “Analysis of cellular objects through diffraction images acquired by flow cytometry,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OE.21.024819 Opt. Express 21, 24819–24828 (2013)].
 # C. Yuen and Q. Liu, “Optimization of !Fe3O4@Ag nanoshells in magnetic field-enriched surface-enhanced resonance Raman scattering for malaria diagnosis,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1039/C3AN00872J Analyst 138, 6494–6500 (2013)].
 # J. Um and G. M. !McFarquhar, “Optimal numerical methods for determining the orientation averages of single-scattering properties of atmospheric ice crystals,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2013.05.020 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 127, 207–223 (2013)].
 # B. Sun, P. Yang, and G. W. Kattawar, “Many-body iterative T-matrix method for large aspect ratio particles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2013.05.012 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 127, 165–175 (2013)].
 # Y. Xie, L. Carbone, C. Nobile, V. Grillo, S. D’Agostino, F. Della Sala, C. Giannini, D. Altamura, C. Oelsner, et al., “Metallic-like stoichiometric copper sulfide nanocrystals: phase- and shape-selective synthesis, near-infrared surface plasmon resonance properties, and their modeling,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/nn403035s ACS Nano 7, 7352–7369 (2013)].
 # P.-W. Zhai, Y. Hu, C. R. Trepte, D. M. Winker, D. B. Josset, P. L. Lucker, and G. W. Kattawar, “Inherent optical properties of the coccolithophore: Emiliania huxleyi,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OE.21.017625 Opt. Express 21, 17625–17638 (2013)].
 # M. Gao, P. Yang, D. !McKee, and G. W. Kattawar, “Mueller matrix holographic method for small particle characterization: theory and numerical studies,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/AO.52.005289 Appl. Opt. 52, 5289–5296 (2013)].
 # M. A. Yurkin, “Symmetry relations for the Mueller scattering matrix integrated over the azimuthal angle,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2012.11.023 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 131, 82–87 (2013)].
 # M. Gao, P. Yang, and G. W. Kattawar, “Polarized extinction properties of plates with large aspect ratios,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2013.03.010 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 131, 72–81 (2013)].
 # S. Wojtkiewicz, P. Sawosz, M. Kostecki, and A. Sokolowska, “Optical method for characterization of nanoplates in lyosol,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.mee.2013.02.047 Microel. Engin. 108, 121–126 (2013)].
 # J. Liu and G. W. Kattawar, “Detection of dinoflagellates by the light scattering properties of the chiral structure of their chromosomes,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2013.02.012 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 131, 24–33 (2013)].
 # Q. Zhang, J. J. Xiao, X. M. Zhang, and Y. Yao, “Optical binding force of gold nanorod dimers coupled to a metallic slab,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.optcom.2013.04.005 Opt. Commun. 301–302, 121–126 (2013)].
 # A. I. Konokhova, A. A. Gelash, M. A. Yurkin, A. V. Chernyshev, and V. P. Maltsev, “High-precision characterization of individual E. coli cell morphology by scanning flow cytometry,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cyto.a.22294 Cytometry A 83A, 568–575 (2013)].
 # S. Freddi, L. Sironi, R. D’Antuono, D. Morone, A. Donà, E. Cabrini, L. D’Alfonso, M. Collini, P. Pallavicini, et al., “A molecular thermometer for nanoparticles for optical hyperthermia,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/nl400129v Nano Lett. 13, 2004–2010 (2013)].
 # S. D’Agostino, F. Della Sala, and L. C. Andreani, “Dipole-excited surface plasmons in metallic nanoparticles: Engineering decay dynamics within the discrete-dipole approximation,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.87.205413 Phys. Rev. B 87, 205413 (2013)].
 # S. D’Agostino, F. Della Sala and L. C. Andreani, “Dipole decay rates engineering via silver nanocones”, [http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11468-013-9512-3 Plasmonics 8, 1079–1086 (2013)],
 # J. Leinonen, D. Moisseev and  T. Nousiainen, “Linking snowflake microstructure to multi-frequency radar observations,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/jgrd.50163 J. Geophys. Res. Atmos., 118, 3259–3270 (2013)].
 # M. A. Yurkin and M. Kahnert, “Light scattering by a cube: accuracy limits of the discrete dipole approximation and the T-matrix method,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2012.10.001 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 123, 176–183 (2013)].
 # G. Apostolopoulos, S. V. Tsinopoulos, and E. Dermatas, “A methodology for estimating the shape of biconcave red blood cells using multicolor scattering images,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2012.11.002 Biomed. Signal Proc. Contr. 8, 263–272 (2013)].
 # L. Bi and P. Yang, “Modeling of light scattering by biconcave and deformed red blood cells with the invariant imbedding T-matrix method,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1117/1.JBO.18.5.055001 J. Biomed. Opt 18, 055001 (2013)].
 # L. Bi, P. Yang, G. W. Kattawar, and M. I. Mishchenko, “Efficient implementation of the invariant imbedding T-matrix method and the separation of variables method applied to large nonspherical inhomogeneous particles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2012.11.014 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 116, 169–183 (2013)].
 # P. Yang, L. Bi, B. A. Baum, K.-N. Liou, G. W. Kattawar, M. I. Mishchenko, and B. Cole, “Spectrally consistent scattering, absorption, and polarization properties of atmospheric ice crystals at wavelengths from 0.2 to 100 μm,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1175/JAS-D-12-039.1 J. Atmos. Sci. 70, 330–347 (2013)].
 # Q. Zhang, J. J. Xiao, X. M. Zhang, Y. Yao, and H. Liu, “Reversal of optical binding force by Fano resonance in plasmonic nanorod heterodimer,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OE.21.006601 Opt. Express 21, 6601–6608 (2013)].
 # A. E. Moskalensky, M. A. Yurkin, A. I. Konokhova, D. I. Strokotov, V. M. Nekrasov, A. V. Chernyshev, G. A. Tsvetovskaya, E. D. Chikova, and V. P. Maltsev, “Accurate measurement of volume and shape of resting and activated blood platelets from light scattering,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1117/1.JBO.18.1.017001 J. Biomed. Opt. 18, 017001 (2013)].
 # S. Amini, Y. You, G. W. Kattawar, and K. E. Meissner, “Effect of surrounding inhomogeneities on whispering gallery modes in spherical resonators,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/AO.52.000690 Appl. Opt. 52, 690–697 (2013)].
 # J. Tyynelä, J. Leinonen, C. D. Westbrook, D. Moisseev, and T. Nousiainen, “Applicability of the Rayleigh-Gans approximation for scattering by snowflakes at microwave frequencies in vertical incidence,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/jgrd.50167 J. Geophys. Res.: Atmos. 118, 1826–1839 (2013)].
 # S. Y. Nikitin, A. V. Priezzhev, and A. E. Lugovtsov, “Analysis of laser beam scattering by an ensemble of particles modeling red blood cells in ektacytometer,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2013.02.014 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 121, 1–8 (2013)].
 # F. Teschl, W. L. Randeu, and R. Teschl, “Single-scattering of preferentially oriented ice crystals at centimeter and millimeter wavelengths,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosres.2011.10.004 Atmos. Res. 119, 112–119 (2013)].

= 2012 (15) =

 # Y. Xie, P. Yang, K.-N. Liou, P. Minnis, and D. P. Duda, “Parameterization of contrail radiative properties for climate studies,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1029/2012GL054043 Geophys. Res. Lett. 39, L00F02 (2012)].
 # K. Schmidt, M. A. Yurkin, and M. Kahnert, “A case study on the reciprocity in light scattering computations,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OE.20.023253 Opt. Express 20, 23253–23274 (2012)].
 # J. Lee, J. Kim, P. Yang, and N. C. Hsu, “Improvement of aerosol optical depth retrieval from MODIS spectral reflectance over the global ocean using new aerosol models archived from AERONET inversion data and tri-axial ellipsoidal dust database,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.5194/acp-12-7087-2012 Atmos. Chem. Phys. 12, 7087–7102 (2012)].
 # M. Kahnert, T. Nousiainen, M. A. Thomas, and J. Tyynelä, “Light scattering by particles with small-scale surface roughness: Comparison of four classes of model geometries,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2012.03.017 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 113, 2356–2367 (2012)].
 # M. Gao, Y. You, P. Yang, and G. W. Kattawar, “Backscattering properties of small layered plates: a model for iridosomes,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OE.20.025111 Opt. Express 20, 25111–25120 (2012)].
 # K. F. Evans, J. R. Wang, D. O’C Starr, G. Heymsfield, L. Li, L. Tian, R. P. Lawson, A. J. Heymsfield, and A. Bansemer, “Ice hydrometeor profile retrieval algorithm for high-frequency microwave radiometers: application to the CoSSIR instrument during TC4,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.5194/amt-5-2277-2012 Atmos. Meas. Tech. 5, 2277–2306 (2012)].
 # F. Caramanica, “A method based on particle swarm optimization to retrieve the shape of red blood cells: a preliminary assessment,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.2528/PIERM12090201 Prog. Electromag. Res. M 27, 109–117 (2012)].
 # M. Zimmermann, A. Tausendfreund, S. Patzelt, G. Goch, S. Kieß, M. Z. Shaikh, M. Gregoire, and S. Simon, “In-process measuring procedure for sub-100 nm structures,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.2351/1.4719936 J. Laser Appl. 24, 042010 (2012)].
 # J. Kalkman, A. V. Bykov, G. J. Streekstra, and T. G. van Leeuwen, “Multiple scattering effects in Doppler optical coherence tomography of flowing blood,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0031-9155/57/7/1907 Phys. Med. Biol. 57, 1907–1917 (2012)].
 # X. Zhang, D. J. Gray, Y. Huot, Y. You, and L. Bi, “Comparison of optically derived particle size distributions: scattering over the full angular range versus diffraction at near forward angles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/AO.51.005085 Appl. Opt. 51, 5085–5099 (2012)].
 # C. Liu, L. Bi, R. L. Panetta, P. Yang, and M. A. Yurkin, “Comparison between the pseudo-spectral time domain method and the discrete dipole approximation for light scattering simulations,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OE.20.016763 Opt. Express 20, 16763–16776 (2012)].
 # P. Zijlstra, P. M. R. Paulo, and M. Orrit, “Optical detection of single non-absorbing molecules using the surface plasmon resonance of a gold nanorod,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nnano.2012.51 Nature Nanotechnology 7, 379–382 (2012)].
 # H. Ma, P. M. Bendix, and L. B. Oddershede, “Large-scale orientation dependent heating from a single irradiated gold nanorod,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/nl3010918 Nano Lett. 12, 3954–3960 (2012)].
 # X. Liu, S. Ding, L. Bi, and P. Yang, “On the use of scattering kernels to calculate ice cloud bulk optical properties,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1175/JTECH-D-11-00034.1 J. Atmos. Oceanic Technol. 29, 50–63 (2012)].
 # J. Leinonen, S. Kneifel, D. Moisseev, J. Tyynelä, S. Tanelli, and T. Nousiainen, “Evidence of nonspheroidal behavior in millimeter-wavelength radar observations of snowfall,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1029/2012JD017680 J. Geophys. Res. 117, D18205 (2012)].

= 2011 (21) =
 # V. G. Farafonov, A. A. Vinokurov, and S. V. Barkanov, “Electrostatic solution and rayleigh approximation for small nonspherical particles in a spheroidal basis,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1134/S0030400X11120071 Opt. Spectrosc. 111, 980–992 (2011)].
 # V. G. Farafonov and V. B. Il’in, “On scattering of light by small axially symmetric particles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1134/S0030400X11090086 Opt. Spectrosc. 111, 824–831 (2011)].
 # J. Tyynelä, J. Leinonen, D. Moisseev, and T. Nousiainen, “Radar backscattering from snowflakes: comparison of fractal, aggregate, and soft spheroid models,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1175/JTECH-D-11-00004.1 J. Atmos. Oceanic Technol. 28, 1365–1372 (2011)].
 # P. Yang, M. Wendisch, L. Bi, G. Kattawar, M. Mishchenko, and Y. Hu, “Dependence of extinction cross-section on incident polarization state and particle orientation,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2011.04.012 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 112, 2035–2039 (2011)].
 # M. Z. Shaikh, S. Kieß, M. Gregoire, S. Simon, A. Tausendfreund, M. Zimmermann, and G. Goch, “In-process characterization tool for optically produced sub-100-nm structures,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1116/1.3635404 J. Vacuum Sci. Tech. B 29, 051807 (2011)].
 # D. N. Chigrin, C. Kremers, and S. V. Zhukovsky, “Plasmonic nanoparticle monomers and dimers: from nanoantennas to chiral metamaterials,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00340-011-4733-7 Appl. Phys. B 105, 81-97 (2011)].
 # J. Gasteiger, M. Wiegner, S. Groß, V. Freudenthaler, C. Toledano, M. Tesche, and K. Kandler, “Modelling lidar-relevant optical properties of complex mineral dust aerosols,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1600-0889.2011.00559.x Tellus B 63, 725-741 (2011)].
 # K. Lumme and A. Penttilä, “Model of light scattering by dust particles in the solar system: Applications to cometary comae and planetary regoliths,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2011.01.016 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 112, 1658-1670 (2011)].
 # Y. Xie, P. Yang, G. W. Kattawar, B. A. Baum, and Y. Hu, “Simulation of the optical properties of plate aggregates for application to the remote sensing of cirrus clouds,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/AO.50.001065 Appl. Opt. 50, 1065-1081 (2011)].
 # V. B. Il’in and V. G. Farafonov, “Rayleigh approximation for axisymmetric scatterers,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OL.36.004080 Opt. Lett. 36, 4080-4082 (2011)].
 # B. Yi, C. N. Hsu, P. Yang, and S.-C. Tsay, “Radiative transfer simulation of dust-like aerosols: Uncertainties from particle shape and refractive index,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jaerosci.2011.06.008 J. Aeros. Sci. 42, 631-644 (2011)].
 # C. Kremers and D. N. Chigrin, “Light scattering on nanowire antennas: A semi-analytical approach,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.photonics.2011.03.004 Photon. Nanostruct. Fundam. Applic. 9, 358-366 (2011)].
 # M. Huntemann, G. Heygster, and G. Hong, “Discrete dipole approximation simulations on GPUs using OpenCL--Application on cloud ice particles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2011.05.011 J. Comput. Sci. 2, 262-271 (2011)].
 # K. Muinonen, J. Tyynelä, E. Zubko, H. Lindqvist, A.Penttilä and G. Videen, “Polarization of light backscattered by small particles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2011.06.009 J. Quant. Spectrosc.  Radiat. 112  2193–2212 (2011)].
 # E. Shaviv, O. Schubert, M. Alves-Santos, G. Goldoni, R. Di Felice, F. Valle, N. Del Fatti, U. Banin, and C. Snnichsen, “Absorption properties of metal–semiconductor hybrid nanoparticles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/nn200645h ACS Nano 5, 4712–4719 (2011)].
 # S. D’Agostino, and F. Della Sala, “Silver nanourchins in plasmonics: Theoretical investigation on the optical properties of the branches,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp202229y J. Phys. Chem. C 115, 11934–11940 (2011)].
 # K. Muinonen and T. Pieniluoma, “Light scattering by Gaussian random ellipsoid particles: First results with discrete-dipole approximation,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2011.02.013 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. 112, 1747-1752 (2011)].
 # L. Bi , P. Yang. G. W. Kattawar, Y. Hu, and B. A. Baum, “Scattering and absorption of light by ice particles: Solution by a new physical-geometric optics hybrid method,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2011.02.015 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat.  112, 1492-1508 (2011)].
 # M. A. Yurkin and A. G. Hoekstra,“The discrete-dipole-approximation code ADDA: capabilities and known limitations,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2011.01.031 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat.  112, 2234-2247 (2011)].
 # J. Gasteiger, S. Groß, V. Freudenthaler, and M. Wiegner, “Volcanic ash from Iceland over Munich: mass concentration retrieved from ground-based remote sensing measurements,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.5194/acp-11-2209-2011 Atmos. Chem. Phys. 11, 2209-2223 (2011)].
 # L. Bi, P. Yang, G. W. Kattawar, Y. Hu, and B. A. Baum, “Diffraction and external reflection by dielectric faceted particles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2010.02.007 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 112, 163-173 (2011)].

= 2010 (10) =
 # R. K. Harrison and A. Ben-Yakar, “Role of near-field enhancement in plasmonic laser nanoablation using gold nanorods on a silicon substrate,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OE.18.022556 Opt. Express 18, 22556–22571 (2010)].
 # L. Bi, P. Yang and G. W. Kattawar, “Edge-effect contribution to the extinction of light by dielectric disks and cylindrical particles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/AO.49.004641 Appl. Opt. 49, 4641-4646 (2010)].
 # S. D’Agostino and F. D. Sala, “Active role of oxide layers on the polarization of plasmonic nanostructures,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/nn1007918 ACS Nano 4, 4117-4125 (2010)].
 # M. A. Yurkin, D. de Kanter, and A. G. Hoekstra, “Accuracy of the discrete dipole approximation for simulation of optical properties of gold nanoparticles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1117/1.3335329 J. Nanophoton. 4, 041585-15 (2010)].
 # L. Bi, P. Yang, G. W. Kattawar, and R. Kahn, “Modeling optical properties of mineral aerosol particles by using nonsymmetric hexahedra,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/AO.49.000334 Appl. Opt. 49, 334-342 (2010)].
 # M. A. Yurkin, M. Min, and A. G. Hoekstra, “Application of the discrete dipole approximation to very large refractive indices: Filtered coupled dipoles revived,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.82.036703 Phys. Rev. E 82, 036703-12 (2010)].
 # C. Yuen, W. Zheng, and Z. Huang, “Optimization of extinction efficiency of gold-coated polystyrene bead substrates improves surface-enhanced Raman scattering effects by post-growth microwave heating treatment,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/jrs.2464 J. Raman Spectrosc. 41, 374-380 (2010)].
 # F. Teschl, W. L. Randeu, and R. Teschl, “Microwave scattering from ice crystals: how much parameters can differ from equal volume spheres,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.5194/adgeo-25-127-2010 Adv. Geosci. 25, 127-133 (2010)].
 # Z. Meng, P. Yang, G. W. Kattawar, L. Bi, K. Liou, and I. Laszlo, “Single-scattering properties of tri-axial ellipsoidal mineral dust aerosols: A database for application to radiative transfer calculations,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jaerosci.2010.02.008 J. Aeros. Sci. 41, 501-512 (2010)].
 # K. V. Gilev, E. Eremina, M. A. Yurkin, and V. P. Maltsev, “Comparison of the discrete dipole approximation and the discrete source method for simulation of light scattering by red blood cells,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OE.18.005681 Opt. Express 18, 5681-5690 (2010)].

= 2009 (11) =
 # F. Teschl, W. L. Randeu, and R. Teschl, “Single scattering from frozen hydrometeors at microwave frequencies,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.atmosres.2009.09.001 Atmos. Res. 94, 564-578 (2009)].
 # A. Penttilä and K. Lumme, “The effect of the properties of porous media on light scattering,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2009.05.009 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 110, 1993-2001 (2009)].
 # J. !McDonald, A. Golden, and S. G. Jennings, “OpenDDA: a novel high-performance computational framework for the discrete dipole approximation,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/1094342008097914 Int. J. High Perf. Comp. Appl. 23, 42-61 (2009)].
 # L. Bi, P. Yang, G. W. Kattawar, and R. Kahn, “Single-scattering properties of triaxial ellipsoidal particles for a size parameter range from the Rayleigh to geometric-optics regimes,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/AO.48.000114 Appl. Opt. 48, 114-126 (2009)].
 # J. Tyynelä, T. Nousiainen, S. Göke, and K. Muinonen, “Modeling C-band single scattering properties of hydrometeors using discrete-dipole approximation and T-matrix method,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2009.02.020 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 110, 1654-1664 (2009)].
 # D. I. Strokotov, M. A. Yurkin, K. V. Gilev, D. R. van Bockstaele, A. G. Hoekstra, N. B. Rubtsov, and V. P. Maltsev, “Is there a difference between T- and B-lymphocyte morphology?,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1117/1.3275471 J. Biomed. Opt. 14, 064036-12 (2009)].
 # V. Schmidt and T. Wriedt, “T-matrix method for biaxial anisotropic particles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2009.01.025 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 110, 1392-1397 (2009)].
 # A. V. Priezzhev, S. Y. Nikitin, and A. E. Lugovtsov, “Ray-wave approximation for the calculation of laser light scattering by transparent dielectric particles, mimicking red blood cells or their aggregates,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2009.02.027 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 110, 1535-1544 (2009)].
 # H. Lindqvist, K. Muinonen, and T. Nousiainen, “Light scattering by coated Gaussian and aggregate particles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2009.01.015 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 110, 1398-1410 (2009)].
 # Y. Grynko and S. Pulbere, “Discrete dipole approximation simulations of light reflection from flat non-transparent particles with rough surfaces,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2009.01.028 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 110, 1382-1391 (2009)].
 # S. D'Agostino, P. P. Pompa, R. Chiuri, R. J. Phaneuf, D. G. Britti, R. Rinaldi, R. Cingolani, and F. Della Sala, “Enhanced fluorescence by metal nanospheres on metal substrates,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OL.34.002381 Opt. Lett. 34, 2381-2383 (2009)].

= 2008 (7) =
 # J. Alegret, T. Rindzevicius, T. Pakizeh, Y. Alaverdyan, L. Gunnarsson, and M. Käll, “Plasmonic properties of silver trimers with trigonal symmetry fabricated by electron-beam lithography,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/jp804505k J. Phys. Chem. C 112, 14313-14317 (2008)].
 # A. E. Lugovtsov, S. Y. Nikitin, and A. V. Priezzhev, “Ray-wave approximation for calculating laser radiation scattering by a transparent dielectric spheroidal particle,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1070/QE2008v038n06ABEH013941 Quant. Electron. 38, 606-611 (2008)].
 # C. Selhuber-Unkel, I. Zins, O. Schubert, C. Sönnichsen, and L. B. Oddershede, “Quantitative optical trapping of single gold nanorods,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1021/nl802053h Nano Lett. 8, 2998-3003 (2008)].
 # H. Parviainen and K. Lumme, “Scattering from rough thin films: discrete-dipole-approximation simulations,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/JOSAA.25.000090 J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 25, 90-97 (2008)].
 # D. Y. Orlova, M. A. Yurkin, A. G. Hoekstra, and V. P. Maltsev, “Light scattering by neutrophils: model, simulation, and experiment,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1117/1.2992140 J. Biomed. Opt. 13, 054057-7 (2008)].
 # O. Ekici, R. K. Harrison, N. J. Durr, D. S. Eversole, M. Lee, and A. Ben-Yakar, “Thermal analysis of gold nanorods heated with femtosecond laser pulses,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0022-3727/41/18/185501 J. Phys. D 41, 185501 (2008)].
 # D. J. Cho, F. Wang, X. Zhang, and Y. R. Shen, “Contribution of the electric quadrupole resonance in optical metamaterials,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevB.78.121101 Phys. Rev. B 78, 121101 (2008)].

= 2007 (5) =
 # M. A. Yurkin and A. G. Hoekstra, “The discrete dipole approximation: an overview and recent developments,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2007.01.034 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 106, 558-589 (2007)].
 # M. A. Yurkin, A. G. Hoekstra, R. S. Brock, and J. Q. Lu, “Systematic comparison of the discrete dipole approximation and the finite difference time domain method for large dielectric scatterers,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OE.15.017902 Opt. Express 15, 17902-17911 (2007)].
 # M. A. Yurkin, K. A. Semyanov, V. P. Maltsev, and A. G. Hoekstra, “Discrimination of granulocyte subtypes from light scattering: theoretical analysis using a granulated sphere model,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OE.15.016561 Opt. Express 15, 16561-16580 (2007)].
 # M. A. Yurkin, V. P. Maltsev, and A. G. Hoekstra, “The discrete dipole approximation for simulation of light scattering by particles much larger than the wavelength,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2007.01.033 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 106, 546-557 (2007)].
 # A. Penttila, E. Zubko, K. Lumme, K. Muinonen, M. A. Yurkin, B. T. Draine, J. Rahola, A. G. Hoekstra, and Y. Shkuratov, “Comparison between discrete dipole implementations and exact techniques,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2007.01.026 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 106, 417-436 (2007)].

= 2006 (3) =
 # I. V. Kolesnikova, S. V. Potapov, M. A. Yurkin, A. G. Hoekstra, V. P. Maltsev, and K. A. Semyanov, “Determination of volume, shape and refractive index of individual blood platelets,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jqsrt.2006.02.050 J. Quant. Spectrosc. Radiat. Transfer 102, 37-45 (2006)].
 # M. A. Yurkin, V. P. Maltsev, and A. G. Hoekstra, “Convergence of the discrete dipole approximation. II. An extrapolation technique to increase the accuracy,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/JOSAA.23.002592 J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 23, 2592-2601 (2006)].
 # M. A. Yurkin, V. P. Maltsev, and A. G. Hoekstra, “Convergence of the discrete dipole approximation. I. Theoretical analysis,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/JOSAA.23.002578 J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 23, 2578-2591 (2006)].

= 2005 and earlier (11) =
Those papers used [EarlyHistory earlier version of the code] before the public release of `ADDA`.
 # M. A. Yurkin, K. A. Semyanov, P. A. Tarasov, A. V. Chernyshev, A. G. Hoekstra, and V. P. Maltsev, “Experimental and theoretical study of light scattering by individual mature red blood cells with scanning flow cytometry and discrete dipole approximation,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/AO.44.005249 Appl. Opt. 44, 5249-5256 (2005)].
 # A. G. Hoekstra, M. Frijlink, L. B. F. M. Waters, and P. M. A. Sloot, “Radiation forces in the discrete-dipole approximation,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/JOSAA.18.001944 J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 18, 1944-1953 (2001)].
 # A. G. Hoekstra, J. Rahola, and P. M. A. Sloot, “Accuracy of internal fields in volume integral equation simulations of light scattering,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/AO.37.008482 Appl. Opt. 37, 8482-8497 (1998)].
 # A. G. Hoekstra, M. D. Grimminck, and P. M. A. Sloot, “Large scale simulations of elastic light scattering by a fast discrete dipole approximation,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1142/S012918319800008X Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 9, 87-102 (1998)].
 # A. G. Hoekstra, P. M. A. Sloot, F. van der Linden, M. van Muiswinkel, J. J. J. Vesseur, and L. O. Hertzberger, “Native and generic parallel programming environments on a transputer and a PowerPC platform,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1096-9128(199601)8:1<19::AID-CPE193>3.0.CO;2-9 Concurrency Pract. Ex. 8, 19-46 (1996)].
 # A. G. Hoekstra and P. M. A. Sloot, “Coupled dipole simulations of elastic light scattering on parallel systems,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1142/S0129183195000563 Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 6, 663-679 (1995)].
 # A. G. Hoekstra and P. M. A. Sloot, “New computational techniques to simulate light-scattering from arbitrary particles,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ppsc.19940110304 Part. Part. Sys. Charact. 11, 189-193 (1994)].
 # P. M. A. Sloot and A. G. Hoekstra, “Light scattering simulations on a massively parallel computer at the IC3A,” _Transput. Applic._ *1*, 42-49 (1993).
 # A. G. Hoekstra and P. M. A. Sloot, “Dipolar unit size in coupled-dipole calculations of the scattering matrix elements,” [http://dx.doi.org/10.1364/OL.18.001211 Opt. Lett. 18, 1211-1213 (1993)].
 # P. M. A. Sloot and A. G. Hoekstra, “Implementation of a parallel conjugate gradient method for simulation of elastic light scattering,” _Comp. Phys._ *6*, 323 (1992).
 # A. G. Hoekstra, L. O. Hertzberger, and P. M. A. Sloot, “Simulation of elastic light scattering on distributed memory machines,” _Bull. Am. Phys. Soc._ *36*, 1798 (1991).